---
title: "Super Nintendo"
date: 2019-12-17T20:11:34-05:00
draft: false
weight: 2
---

Here you'll find information on how to dump SNES/SFC carts, and what information should be gathered when sharing a successful dump.

[Dumping SNES/SFC carts with SuperNT][1]

[Dumping SNES/SFC carts with RetroFreak][2]

---

When dumping a SNES cart, yadayada, bla bla.

### Gathering Dump Info
A useful tool for calculating hashes and gather some of the information below is [GameHeader][3].
For uploading scans, you can use something like [IBB][4] - do not use Imgur as they compress the images.

**Descriptions of dump information:**

* CRC32: Generated by the tool mentioned above.
* MD5: Ditto.
* SHA-1: Ditto.
* Game title: If it differs between different places (e.g. title screen, console menu banner, box, cart) then go with the one on the front of the box.
* ROM Region: The region found in the ROM data. (Can be extracted using GameHeader)
* ROM Revision: The revision found in the ROM data. (Can be extracted using GameHeader)
* ROM Serial: The four-character serial found in the ROM data. (Can be extracted using GameHeader, if the header includes it)
* Languages/Language Select: Some games either show a language selection screen at startup or in the game options. Note that it is possible to submit a game without checking the languages, but this then needs to be stated in your submission.
* Cart Serial: It is located on the label on the front of the cart, for example: "SNS-MW-USA"
* Box Barcode: The number on the case displayed beneath the vertical lines, see Barcode.
* Box Serial: The serial on the case. Example: SNS P MW.
* Size: The size of the ROM in bytes.
* Chip(s) serial(s) (optional): The main serial on the ROM chip, for example: "SNS-MW-0".
* Scans: The following scans (or photos) would be good to have: Front and back of the following items - box, cart and PCB.

**Dump Info Submission Template**

```text
CRC32:
MD5:
SHA-1:
Game title:
ROM Region:
ROM Revision:
ROM Serial:
Languages/Language Select:
Cart Serial:
Box Barcode:
Box Serial:
Size:
Chip(s) serial(s) (optional):
Scans:
```

[1]: https://github.com/SmokeMonsterPacks/Super-NT-Jailbreak#copysnes
[2]: https://gist.github.com/jonasrosland/a535f05acb8b81d6685d4d7d348b35ec
[3]: https://www.romhacking.net/utilities/931/
[4]: http://ibb.co/